---
title: Graduate
permalink: "/graduate/"
layout: page
---

Welcome to Temple’s graduate program in Philosophy! We are a community of around 35 MA and PhD students and a cohesive group of faculty working across the traditions of Anglo-American and European philosophy, contemporary issues and historical scholarship. Granting its first PhD in 1971, Temple’s graduate program has a proud history, situated in the vibrant, urban environment of Philadelphia—a city just ranked a number one designation by Lonely Planet.

Our international faculty and student body reflect the diversity of Temple’s campus and we are especially proud to have earned a ranking amongst American philosophy programs with the most women graduates. There are Temple graduates teaching in Europe, the US, Asia, and the rest of the world. In spite of a difficult job market, our graduates keep being successful in securing academic and philosophy related non-academic positions.

Temple’s faculty members are internationally acclaimed in key philosophical areas such as epistemology, philosophy of science, philosophy of language, ethics, pragmatism, aesthetics, feminism, ancient philosophy, early modern, Kant, and post-Kantian European philosophy. Faculty members publish with leading journals and publishing houses, representing Temple nationally and abroad. In the past few years, we have welcomed international visitors from Norway, Sweden, Spain, France, and China, but also US scholars and academics wishing to work with Temple faculty and students.

The Department provides our students with a well-rounded education and familiarity with the discipline at large. In addition to a roster of mixed level classes, we offer 4 to 6 graduate seminars per year, covering the interests of graduate faculty and students. We have an active department colloquium series, organize conferences and campus events, and contribute regularly to the Greater Philadelphia Philosophy Consortium. Our students run a Work-in-Progress series and a newly established Women in Philosophy reading group.

In addition to two years of coursework (for incoming students with no credit transfers), PhD students submit two preliminary essays in their second and third years, designed so as to provide training in research, collegial cooperation, and publishing strategies. The best prelim essay is awarded the annual Nordev Prize, and many of our students present their research at conferences nationally and internationally and work with faculty mentors to publish their papers in relevant journals. Our graduate students write dissertations in a wide range of areas, ranging from epistemology to political philosophy and aesthetics, ancient philosophy, nineteenth-century philosophy, and contemporary European thought.

We actively encourage—and seek to facilitate—interdisciplinary work. This year, we are excited to offer new dual degrees, MA or PhD in Philosophy together with a Masters in Urban Bioethics. These are qualifications designed to prepare students for research, teaching, and practice in healthcare ethics and policy.

We have a strong and long-standing legacy in aesthetics and enthusiastically recommend Philadelphia’s thriving art and theater scene. Presently, we are strengthening our ties with Temple’s Department of Dance, hoping to add an MA/MA in philosophy and dance to our offerings by the end of the year. Temple’s philosophy graduates are well-represented at the Center for Humanities at Temple, which offers grants and associate positions to faculty and advanced graduate students pursuing interdisciplinary work.  We also offer a Graduate Certificate in Gender, Sexuality, and Women’s Studies. The Department is also involved in a scholarly exchange program with institutions in Vietnam under the auspices of the Temple Center for Vietnamese Philosophy, Culture and Society.

About half of our incoming students receive funding either through the university’s Graduate Fellowships and Future Faculty Program or through the Department’s TA-lines. Unfunded students sometimes get support or TA-lines later on. Our students also have external and international funding sources, such as Fulbright Fellowships and sometimes research grants from their home countries. We are always happy to work with students seeking funding both nationally and internationally and encourage our graduate students to make use of our networks to integrate studies abroad into their graduate school experience.

Our graduate students typically assemble a solid teaching portfolio, working with faculty teaching mentors and the Teaching and Learning Center to build their skills as mentors and educators. We encourage our PhD students to pursue Temple’s Teaching in Higher Education Certificate. Our graduate students also run a mentor program for undergraduates with an interest in philosophy. Beginning in 2016/2017, we acknowledge the graduate student’s contribution to Department life with a graduate student prize for excellence in mentorship and teaching.

## MA or PhD in Philosophy/Masters in Urban Bioethics Dual Degree Programs

The Department of Philosophy and the Center for Bioethics, Urban Health, and Policy at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine introduce the first dual degree programs with a PhD or MA in Philosophy and a Masters in Urban Bioethics! Both degree programs are now accepting applications for Fall 2017 admission. The dual degrees are also announced [here](https://medicine.temple.edu/departments-centers/research-centers/center-bioethics-urban-health-and-policy/educational-programs/dual-degrees).

The aim of the dual degree programs is to provide (a) Philosophy PhD or MA students with specialized training in the ethics, values, and politics of health in our increasingly multi-dimensionally diverse society and (b) Urban Bioethics students with a broader understanding of the philosophical underpinnings of contemporary bioethics. The dual degree programs blend the missions and values of philosophy and urban bioethics and will prepare students with the depth of training and expertise to enable them to be competitive as they move towards being future leaders in academia, public spheres, and health care.

Students must apply to and be accepted by each program separately ([PhD Philosophy](http://www.cla.temple.edu/philosophy/graduate-program/information-for-applicants/) application due January 15, [MA Philosophy](http://www.cla.temple.edu/philosophy/graduate-program/information-for-applicants/) application due March 1; [MA Urban Bioethics](http://bulletin.temple.edu/graduate/scd/medicine/urban-bioethics-ma/) application with rolling admissions) and indicate within each application their intention to pursue a dual degree. The two applications require separate application fees, but the programs will share application materials. The dual degree program allows the student to earn both degrees with fewer credits than if each degree was taken separately. The courses consist of the Urban Bioethics core courses (17 credits) and required courses and electives from the Philosophy Department (21 credits for the MA and 30 for the PhD). It is recommended that dual degree students take both Ethics in Medicine (Philosophy 5249) and Philosophy of Medicine (Philosophy 5218).

The MA Philosophy / MA Urban Bioethics dual degree program can be completed in two years of full-time study or up to four years of part-time study. The PhD Philosophy/MA Urban Bioethics dual degree program can be completed in four to six years of full time study. PhD students in Philosophy are eligible for funding.

For further details about the joint degree programs, please contact Professor Miriam Solomon in the Department of Philosophy (msolomon@temple.edu) or Dr. Nora Jones at the Center for Bioethics, Urban Health and Policy (nora.jones@temple.edu)
